# Organizing and Hosting MilMove Technical Docs

**User Story:** *[ticket/issue-number]* <!-- optional -->

*[context and problem statement]*
*[decision drivers | forces]* <!-- optional -->

## Considered Alternatives

* React-based static-site generator in new repo
* React-based static-site generator in `mymove` repo
* Non-React static-site generator
* Confluence
* `mymove` wiki
* Google docs
* A little bit of everything (status-quo)

## Decision Outcome

* Chosen Alternative: *[alternative 1]*
* *[justification. e.g., only alternative, which meets KO criterion decision driver | which resolves force force | ... | comes out best (see below)]*
* *[consequences. e.g., negative impact on quality attribute, follow-up decisions required, ...]* <!-- optional -->

## Pros and Cons of the Alternatives

### Static-site generator

* `+` Articles can be written in markdown.
* `+` Can be hosted using GitHub Pages. Easy to share with external clients, devs and non-devs.
* `+` Highly customizable. Can be styled and branded to match MilMove.
* `+` Can integrate with API documentation. Can actually become an information hub.
* `+` Version control with `git`. Documentation updates must be reviewed in PRs.
* `+` PRs make standards enforceable.
* `-` Not very accessible for non-engineers to edit.
* `-` Would need to publicize the link.

#### React-based in new repo

* `+` The framework is a new dependency, but the environment and tech-stack will be familiar.
* `+` Putting it in an separate repo will let us update our PR requirements for documentation-specific needs. Can have
  wider permissions for non-engineers as well, making it marginally more accessible.
* `+` A new repo gives us a clean slate with regards to setup, organization, etc.
* `-` Documentation updates can't be easily incorporated into feature PRs (but PRs can be easily linked).

#### React-based in `mymove` repo

* `+` The framework is a new dependency, but the environment and tech-stack will be familiar.
* `+` Putting it in the `mymove` repo makes it easy to incorporate documentation updates into our feature PRs.
* `-` Even less accessible to non-engineers with `mymove`'s repositiory restrictions.
* `-` Putting it in the `mymove` repo will create an organizational nightmare.
* `-` Setting up two distinct React apps (that should be built separately and have different dependencies) in one
  project is complex and painful.
* `-` Hosting on GitHub Pages would be tricky with all the other code in the repo. Might raise security questions.

#### Non-React (ex: Jekyll) in any repo

* `-` Adds a new dependency to the project, and potentially a new tech-stack to learn. No clear benefits over a
  React-based static-site generator.

### Confluence

* `+` We have access through Jira and have to use it for other documentation, so it would help reduce our project
  dependencies.
* `+` Search functionality is decent.
* `+` Organization is decent, although there is a learning curve to setting it up effectively.
* `+` Looks nice and official. Easily able to set view-only permissions.
* `+` Easy for non-engineers to edit.
* `-` No defined process for reviewing documentation. There are alerts for when docs are changed, but they are easily bypassed.
* `-` Some standards, but they are difficult to review and enforce. Very little oversight on changes.
* `-` Cannot integrate with API docs.

### `mymove` wiki

* `+` Articles are written in markdown.
* `+` In the same repo as the codebase. Easy to reference, and searching the codebase includes wiki articles.
* `+` External devs have easy access to these docs.
* `-` Poor organization. Creating link trees and navigating from one document to another is an adhoc process and easily
  gets out of date.
* `-` No defined process for reviewing documentation. We _can_ have PRs on the wiki, but they're hard to set up, cloning
  and editing the wiki that way is awkward.
* `-` Some standards, but they are difficult to review and enforce. Very little oversight on changes.
* `-` Not very usable for external users who aren't developers. No branding.
* `-` Poor support for images.
* `-` Cannot integrate with API docs.

### Google docs

* `+` Docs can be well-formatted and readable.
* `+` Easy to add comments. Can tag folks directly on docs.
* `+` Easy for non-engineers to edit.
* `-` Not easily searchable. Practically impossible to find something unless you know the exact title.
* `-` Poor organization. Google Drive file structure is opaque and unhelpful, and we have no defined organizational
  structure.
* `-` No defined process for reviewing documentation.
* `-` Some standards, but they are difficult to review and enforce.
* `-` Hard to distribute to external folks. Very internal-focused.
* `-` Constantly a WIP. There's no uneditable version to use as a reference.
* `-` Cannot integrate with API docs.

### A little bit of everything (status-quo)

* `-` Not searchable. Finding the correct document is next to impossible if you don't know which platform it's on.
* `-` No organization. New documentation is hard to promote and circulate if some folks aren't looking in that location.
* `-` No defined process for reviewing documentation.
* `-` No standards. It's impossible to enforce (or even define) content standards with so many different formats.
* `-` No set of links pointing people to the correct docs. Decent documentation is forgotten, falls out of date, and
  gets duplicated.
* `-` Nothing to point external clients/users/developers to. No (good) informational resources for outside folks.
